Practicing git stuff (in order to git good) OHHHHHHHHHHH

Quick notes I made during the codecademy git lessons

A Working Directory: where you'll be doing all the work: creating, editing, deleting and organizing files
A Staging Area: where you'll list changes you make to the working directory
A Repository: where Git permanently stores those changes as different versions of the project

git init creates a new Git repository
git status inspects the contents of the working directory and staging area
git add adds files from the working directory to the staging area
git diff shows the difference between the working directory and the staging area
git commit permanently stores file changes from the staging area in the repository
git log shows a list of all previous commits
git show HEAD shows the most recent commit

Before resetting:
HEAD is at the most recent commit

After resetting:
HEAD goes to a previously made commit of your choice
The gray commits are no longer part of your project
You have in essence rewound the project's history


git checkout HEAD filename: Discards changes in the working directory.
git reset HEAD filename: Unstages file changes in the staging area.
git reset commit_SHA: Resets to a previous commit in your commit history.

git branch: Lists all a Git project's branches.
git branch branch_name: Creates a new branch.
git checkout branch_name: Used to switch from one branch to another.
git merge branch_name: Used to join file changes from one branch to another.
git branch -d branch_name: Deletes the branch specified.

GIT CLONE
git clone remote_location clone_name

In this command: 

remote_location tells Git where to go to find the remote. This could be a web address, or a filepath, such as:

git clone: Creates a local copy of a remote.
git remote -v: Lists a Git project's remotes.
git fetch: Fetches work from the remote into the local copy.
git merge origin/master: Merges origin/master into your local branch.
git push origin <branch_name>: Pushes a local branch to the origin remote.

